# CS-360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming  
### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?  
For this project, I developed an Event Tracking App. The goal of the was to track the dates of upcoming events for the user and to notify the user on the day of the event. To accomplish this, there were some requirements for the app. The app needed two databases, one to store event information and one to store user login information. The app need to have a login in screen that could also be used to create a login for new users. There needed to be a screen that displayed the upcoming event information. Additionally, the app needed to have functionality that allowed the user to add and remove events from the database, enter the general information for the event, and enable SMS notifications for scheduled events. By including all of these requirements, the app meets the user need of keeping track of upcoming events and deadlines, promoting time managment and organization.  
### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?  
The app consists of three screens: a login screen, an event list screen, and an add event screen. On the login screen, the user can input their username and password. If the user is a returning user, clicking the login button transitions them to the event list screen. If the user is a new user, they can lick the new user button to have their login credentials added to the database. This layout of this screen is simplistic to promote usability. The event list screen displays scheduled events in an easy-to-read table, and also includes buttons to add events, enable SMS notifications, and delete events. This buttons are easily viewable and distinguished by common images ( a plus sign for adding events, a test bubble for SMS notification, and a trashcan for deleting events.  
If the user clicks the add event button, theye are taking to the add event screen. This screen prompts the user to enter event information, including the event name, date, and description. Once the information is entered, the user clicks an easily identifiable green "add" button. The user is then taken back to the event list screen, where their new event will be shown. I believe this design was successful because it not only is visually appealling and easy to use, but it is also functional and accomplishes the goals of the app.  
### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?  
My approach to coding this app was an agile approach. I would begin coding a function or feature of an app, then code it's branching functions as necessary, testing often. For example, I began by coding the database for the user login information, then wrote the code for the login and new user functions. Once those were tested and satisfactory, I went back to the database class to add the table and functionality for the event database, before moving on to the event list code.  
This approach could be used in the future for roughly any development project. Having flexibility while coding and testing early and often are important to delevoping any project. Taking a linear approach and/or not testing frequently can result in unforseen problems that can cost additional time and resources to fix.  
### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?  
Throughout the development process, I tested frequently. After each function was added, such as the login function or the add event function, I tested it to ensure that it worked as desired. If it didn't work, or partially worked, I addressed the issue before moving on to another part of the app. This process allowed me to be confident that as I progess through the app, each aspect was working as desired and once it was complete, the app would run without issue.  
### Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?  
When designing the UI for the app, I had to find the balance between functionality and the user experience. Creating an app that meets all of the functionality requires while maintain simplicity and user friendliness can be a difficult task. For example, a separate screen could have been used for registering a new user, however this would have potentially complicated the app and taken away from the user experience. Instead, the user can register their username and password but entering it into the login information and clicking the new user button.  
### In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?  
I believe the design and implementation of the database was particularly successful. The user is able to login, register as a new user, view events, add events, and delete events easily and accurately. Data from the database is accurately displayed in the app quickly and with minimal effort from the user.
